Carroll was convicted in 2004 for
the murders of 14 young women.
The warden granted Joe Carroll's
request for a transfer. He's leaving.
Joe's not in the transport
vehicle. Where the hell is he?
- Joe's free. now I get locked up.
- Protective custody. Better if I don't know.
- Quantico sent in a new guy.
- Nick Donovan. top of the food chain.
This investigation
starts at my desk now.
Joe Carroll. How
the hell are you. heh?
- I'm Roderick.
- Ugh.
Emma. why did you
leave us? Emma!
- Any word from Jacob and Paul?
- They haven't called.
Hang on. I'm gonna
get us some help.
Thank you.
- I love my wife.
- She's not here.
Losing Claire must sting. but I
have an idea where we can find her.
- Agent Weston. tell us where Claire is.
- Ah. I don't know anything.
Claire's location. He's the only
one who knows where Claire is.
- Everyone's waiting.
- What for?
For you.
Good morning. everybody.
How did Joe Carroll escape in
a helicopter in broad daylight?
Carroll's people infiltrated the
prison. Warden was compromised.
How many people are
part of Carroll's cult?
Early evidence suggested
somewhere under 12...
but. uh. in light of Carroll's recent
escape. tactical resources. manpower...
- could be upwards of 100.
- How did you arrive at that?
Carroll's visitors log in prison
contained 47 false identities.
And his Internet usage. although heavily
encrypted. suggested twice that many.
That's a guess at best. agent.
We looking for a cult compound
like Waco or Jonestown?
Yes. we believe there to
be some sort of safe haven.
But you don't
know where that is.
No. we don't.
Our working theory is that it's
within a three-state radius of Virginia.
Let me get this straight.
There's an organized
gathering of dozens of killers.
And you have no
idea where they are?
Can I just remind everyone that
this is a briefing and not an inquisition?
Who are the people he
recruits? Can't all be serial killers.
He recruits from
all walks of life.
Housewives. teachers.
accountants. military. law enforcement.
All of whom fit the personality types
associated with cult susceptibility.
- Empty. lost. maladjusted...
- To full-blown psychopaths.
The acolytes we've
encountered have run the gamut...
from visionary to
hedonistic one-time killers...
mission-oriented
killers. fans of killers.
Mr. Hardy. an agent was captured
and assaulted by cult members.
- Was he able to identify his captors?
- That agent. Mike Weston?
We have a sketch artist standing
by for the moment he's conscious.
And his cult? Have you identified
their religion or manifesto?
Both a novelist
and a professor...
Carroll's using literary themes found
in the works of gothic romanticism.
All that we see or seem...
is but a dream within a dream.
And that is what this
moment is for me.
He's speaking to his subjects with
the promise of elevating their lives.
Through death.
one experiences life.
I will never forget...
what you have all done for me.
The sacrifices you have made.
But now the time
has come for you.
By his own admission Carroll has engaged
his followers to write their own chapters.
To become part of this
novel that he's writing.
I want to hear from each
and every one of you.
Tell me what inspires you.
I need your help...
to finish our story.
He's united with his people. He will
do something to ignite them to action.
I see it in your eyes.
I know you are ready.
It's time for him to tell
the next part of his story.
And so we begin.
That didn't go well.
Uh. too many people have died.
It's a PR nightmare.
- Gotta blame someone.
- Agent Parker.
I just heard from Franklin.
Will you excuse us?
I'll wait in the car.
Am I out? I know they're
discussing it. Just tell me.
No. but they are taking the
operation and control to D.C.
Where does that leave me?
Everyone recognizes that Ryan
Hardy is integral to all of this.
But he's a wild card.
We want you to stay
on. hold his hand.
You'll keep your task force
here and continue to report to me.
Understood.
Jacob.
Mom.
For my chapter. I thought I...
Uh. I'm sorry. heh. I've been
working on this forever. heh.
I'm just so nervous
with you here. heh.
Um. where was I?
Uh. yes. my chapter.
It's okay. Hey. relax.
- Come on. shake it out. Shake it out.
- Ah. okay. heh.
Thank you for seeing me.
I've been wanting to
visit for so long now.
- I must seem like some groupie to you...
- No. No. Amanda. no.
I found your letters
really quite moving.
I'm glad to finally meet you.
And you wrote
in your last one...
that something had
happened? What?
Yes. but I couldn't
write it in a letter.
Let me guess. your husband.
You know he was cheating on me.
That bony-ass thing
he works with. Lindsay.
The one with the huge fake things.
Right under my nose. in my bed.
I could smell it on my sheets.
I knew you had your suspicions.
You wrote in a letter:
"Insist on happiness."
So I took a shotgun
to both of them.
My daddy was big on
gaming. He could hunt anything.
I know my way around animals.
So I went to a hardware
store and bought a hatchet...
electric hacksaw. some
ammonia. and a bucket.
It took a few days
to bag them up.
Then I drove to Florida and dumped
them in a swamp and drove here.
They're gonna find some pieces.
They can DNA and CSI
that stuff. They'll come for me.
Do you have to go
back to Oklahoma?
I don't have
anywhere to go. Joe.
I have a friend.
His name is Roderick. heh.
He's been known to
help other friends of mine.
I'm sure he'd be able to
give you a place to stay.
You love your wife.
I know you want her back.
And I want that for you. Joe.
I want my chapter to
have a happy ending.
Go on.
- Jacob.
- What?
He's my friend.
Mom. and he's hurt.
I recognize him.
Your faces are plastered
all over the news.
You're a wanted fugitive.
- Kidnapping. murder?
- I never killed anybody. Mom.
- The FBI said you did.
- I haven't.
They say you're involved with
that serial killer. Part of a cult?
I didn't say that
I was innocent.
- Why are you here?
- Because it's impossible at home.
There are federal agents
patrolling our house.
Reporters are following
your father to work.
Oh. well. that's a bummer.
Poor guy.
Help me understand this. Jacob.
I'm your mother and I love
you. but I don't understand this.
I don't think that
I can explain.
No. detective. I'm
staring at it right now.
That's not Paul Torres.
that's not Jacob Wells.
No. absolutely sure.
Neither man.
No. not a waste
of my time. Thanks.
Complete waste of my time. This is
the chief homicide detective in Dallas.
I'm sorry. I let it through.
He was convinced.
Ryan Hardy. CARROLL Hello. Ryan.
- What can I do for you. Joe?
- I just wanted to see...
how your friend.
Weston. was doing. eh.
I heard that he
took quite a beating.
- He's expected to make a full recovery.
- Oh.
No. that's good to hear.
Sorry about your
friends. though.
They're kind of dead.
That's okay. I have more. heh.
So. what do you want. Joe?
You know. just to chat.
I'm feeling a little bit down.
Tell me...
do you miss Claire. Ryan?
I know I do.
Ironically. you're the only person who
really understands how I feel at the moment.
Being that we both
love the same woman.
Why is love so punishing. Ryan?
- Get something.
- He's on a satellite phone.
- Sends me to Singapore.
- Homeland can intercept.
Love's elation always
seems to turn to pain.
How true the adage
"love hurts." huh?
Tell me. how much hurt
can one man endure. Ryan?
Uh. at what point does he break?
You must let me know.
I can't remember. what is good here?
Did I get the hamburger steak last time?
You liked it. didn't love it.
Heh. it's fine. Will you order?
Uh. no onions. gravy on the
fries. I'm gonna wash my hands.
I'm sorry. can I help you. heh?
Yes. you can. I need you
to give someone a message.
I'm sorry. do I know you?
What are you doing?
What's in your hands?
Oh. it's nothing really. I need
you to do something for me.
It's like a favor. There's
this man named Ryan Hardy.
I think you have
the wrong table.
This is important.
You need to tell Ryan
Hardy that sometimes...
love hurts. Can
you remember that?
- Heh. hey.
- Hi.
- Who is this?
- I don't know.
- She has something in her hands.
- What do you have there?
Customized 24-inch
pressurized spear gun.
Mainly used for
deep-sea fishing.
Heh. what are you
gonna do with that?
I'm sorry. I didn't
mean to laugh.
I'm gonna try it out.
- Unh!
- Oh. my God! Oh. my God. help!
- She's bleeding!
- Don't forget what I told you.
- Oh. my God. help me! Somebody help me!
- Thank you.
Oh. my God. she's bleeding.
- Oh. God. help me!
She's bleeding.
Help me! Somebody help!
And then she just
walked right out the door.
She said. "Tell Ryan
Hardy that love hurts."
I don't understand. why
would she kill Claire?
Excuse me. ma'am.
hi. Uh. your friend...
Claire Dobkins. was she married?
She was separated. Why?
What was her maiden name?
It was Matthews.
Hey.
- Make sure Claire is safe.
- She is.
We moved her location
after Weston's attack.
- Check again. confirm it.
- She's safe.
- She can't turn on the TV. This'll kill her.
- You're over-reacting.
- Take away all media access. Just do it.
- Let them do their job.
Hey. Are you okay?
I'm fine. I'm good.
I'm good. it's just...
Joe said. "How much
hurt can one man endure?"
He's trying to break you.
By targeting women
with his wife's name.
I mean. how many Claire
Matthews are out there?
- Your wound is infected.
- Can you help me?
You're a nurse. right?
- Jacob said you were a nurse.
- I was.
I'm not anymore.
Who are you calling?
- Who are you calling?
- I'm leaving another message for Emma.
She's not gonna call you back.
Don't you get it? She left us.
She left us to die.
At the farmhouse?
I never trusted her.
She never trusted
me either. Heh.
Her name is Robyn Stewart. Works
at the Moser plant near the boat yard.
I've been watching her
for a few months now.
I think she's perfect for you.
- You want me to do this by myself?
- Yeah. why not?
- You don't trust me.
- It's not that.
- Emma. I've killed before.
- But not with us.
Look. if it'll make you feel
better. Jacob will go with you.
Look. I wanna be here. All
right. I moved here. didn't I?
I gave up everything in
El Paso just to be near Joe.
Look. you can
trust me. I promise.
And you can trust us.
I can't trust you.
- Hey. hey!
- Hey. hey. easy. easy.
I'm sorry.
Reporting live from a diner
in the Union Hill district...
where earlier today. a
woman was brutally murdered.
This is another in a series of slayings
attributed to serial killer Joe Carroll...
- and his cult of killers.
- Is everything okay?
Hmm. very much so.
I was quite worried about
our nervous little Amanda...
but she appears to be rather
proficient with her weapons.
Sources tell us that Ms. Matthews
was placed in protective custody...
Are we okay?
I'm not sure we should
advertise our indiscretion.
Is it really so bad?
I thought it was
worth it. personally.
Roderick. um. is there
any news on Jacob or Paul?
No. no. not yet.
- I'll keep looking.
- Yes. yes. thank you. Um...
I'm sure Emma
would be most grateful.
I'm sorry about that. Mom.
He's got sepsis.
You realize that?
If you don't get him to a hospital
immediately. he's going to die.
Can you help him?
He needs a blood
transfusion. Antibiotics.
Surgery when he's stable.
You need to get
him to a hospital.
You should go now.
Before your father gets here.
He's on his way.
Louise Sinclair. we know. Amanda
Porter is wanted for murder in Oklahoma.
Killed her husband and
the woman he slept with.
Their remains were discovered
in a Florida swamp in '07.
So we got 87 Claire Matthews
in the U.S.. 14 in the state.
Five. including Joe Carroll's
ex. reside in the Richmond area.
We're locating them now.
Claire Matthews on Monroe
is safe. Local P.D. have her.
Good. that's one. Three more
to find. Come on. let's go. let's go.
Hello?
What?
Hmm.
Authorities are asking anyone
named Claire Matthews...
to please contact their
local law enforcement.
- Joe Carroll is a wanted fugitive...
- Someone's at the door.
Who is considered extremely
dangerous. Anyone...
Who is it? AMANDA: We're
looking for Claire Matthews.
Hang on. it's the police.
Help me!
Carroll is targeting women
with the same name as his wife.
Law enforcement across the
country are responding to the threat.
We need your help to
get word out. be on alert.
This is our suspect. Amanda
Porter. 35 years of age.
Wanted on suspicion
of at least two murders.
If anyone sees
her. do not engage.
Contact your local authorities
or the FBI immediately.
Okay.
Hey. we found another Claire.
She's in protection. That
means just one still out there.
There's something too
pedestrian about this.
Why would Joe call me up...
- to foreshadow what he was up to?
- He can't have Claire.
- He wants to punish you for it.
- This isn't about me at all.
Maybe he's trying
to lure her out.
I'm telling you. if she knows this is
happening. she will offer herself up.
But she doesn't. She's not seeing it. I
believe Nick. She has no media access.
I hope you're right.
Amanda Porter kills her husband
and his mistress in a single act of rage.
How does she escalate to
mission killer on a spree?
Gotta add the cult component.
This is her chapter of Joe's playbook.
I mean. look at these murders.
They're public statements.
This guy is big on theatrics.
Look at the weapons.
they're like props.
Spear gun. garrote.
Even he uses an ice pick.
This is a cult member who's
using her leader's playbook...
complete with
romantic underpinnings.
Love hurts.
Drink some water.
Got to get him to
a hospital. Jacob.
You're just worried
Dad will see me.
He's going to call the police. Do
you want that? You're a murderer.
Stop saying that. Mom!
I never killed anyone!
Tell her.
Come on. tell her the truth.
A friend of Dad's.
Back in El Paso.
Bad ass ex-Marine. Used to
make fun of me all the time.
Really lay into me. Rough me up.
One night I just had enough.
I cracked his head and I
pushed him down the stairs. heh.
I was 12.
- So is this an audition?
- Yeah.
- I mean. I gotta be careful.
- So do I. You stab her first.
No. this is all you.
That was the deal.
How do I know I can trust the two of you?
How do I know you're not setting me up?
- Why would we do that?
- I don't know.
I'll finish her off. you
have to take the first stab.
That way I know we
can trust each other.
All right?
You've never killed anyone. heh.
- Yes. I have.
- Then do it.
Does your little
girlfriend know?
Honesty and trust is the
foundation of all relationships.
Screw you. man.
Heh. take it easy.
All right? Relax.
Don't hyperventilate.
Take a breath.
Jacob's telling the truth.
He's never killed anyone.
Are you bumming? You
look like you're bumming.
I'm not.
Wanna get drunk?
How are you the
sheriff of a town?
Heh. well...
first you go to the police
academy. get your diploma.
They give you a gun.
get a badge. walk patrol...
My family is big
on public service.
I mean. they
practically preached it.
Dad was military.
Mom loves her
politics. blah. blah.
But you found Joe?
Yeah.
Joe. uh. speaks to
my contradictions. heh.
We all have our
gray areas. Emma.
For instance. Joe loves his
wife. and I mean. he loves his wife.
And yet he slept with you.
You need to mind
your own business.
And you have a
boyfriend somewhere.
And your boyfriend's
got a boyfriend.
I'd call that a gray
area. Wouldn't you?
- You don't know anything about it.
- Are you even worried about them?
- Do you even care if I find Jacob?
- Yes. I care.
I love Jacob.
- I want him here with me.
- Really?
I checked your satellite phone.
It's just full of messages
from your little lost boyfriend.
"Emma.
Why'd you leave. huh?
Why'd you leave
us? I love you. Emma.
Please. call me."
So Carroll made two
attempts to get his wife.
Both failed. so now he's
making public statements?
Why? To get at you?
That's what he wants me to think. I
think he's speaking directly to Claire.
I think he's trying to reach
her to lure her out of custody.
That hasn't happened.
I have confirmation that
she is not aware of this.
Spoke with a roommate of
our missing Claire Matthews.
She's a student at Thurman Community.
Says she's at a school festival off campus.
- Left her cell phone. They can't reach her.
- Let's go.
Call ahead and notify local police.
Get every available agent there now.
The e-mail worked.
Roderick sent us an address. They're gonna
meet us and take us to the others. heh.
Your father's gonna be here in
five minutes. You have to leave now.
I need to get you out of here.
- No. No.
- Come on. we have to go.
- Okay.
- No. no. no.
Come on. Dad's gonna call
the police. We need to go.
- You owe me.
- What?
I'm not just gonna leave you here.
- Just go.
- I wouldn't do that to you. Come on.
- You owe me.
What?
You owe me.
- What the hell's wrong with you?
- I can't believe that happened.
I mean. the way you just...
Did you see her eyes?
Hey. hey. take it easy.
Come here. It's okay.
it's okay. It's okay.
It's okay.
All right?
Emma's... Emma's gonna hate
me. She doesn't know about this.
- She'll hate me.
- We're not gonna tell her.
Why would you do that for me?
Because I like you.
You're a good guy.
Besides. now you owe me.
- All right?
- Okay.
Please. I want my
life to mean something.
That's really all
I've ever wanted.
It's perfect.
You can do this.
You can do it.
Jacob.
Thank you.
I love you.
I'm sorry.
We're looking for Claire
Matthews. 22. dark brown hair. 5'8".
Last seen wearing a
blue jacket and jeans.
Canvass the entire block.
Everyone stay in constant
radio contact. Let's move.
Hey. I'm Steve.
What's your name?
- Heh. Claire. STEVE:
Let's see your face.
Come on.
Hey. I spotted Louise...
just south of the dance
floor. I'm in pursuit.
- Wait. Don't I know you?
- Uh. I don't think so.
Is your last name Matthews?
Heh. how did you know that?
The police are looking for you.
Hang on. let me pull it up.
They say she's killing people
named Claire Matthews.
You should find a
cop or something.
- That's her. STEVE:
Get out of here.
Leave her alone.
Aw. what do we have
here? Mr. Helper?
Ryan. do you still have Louise?
- I lost her.
Hey. I got somebody hurt
here by the Ferris wheel.
I need some backup now.
Help me. There's a
woman who wants to kill me.
What?
Help me!
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
- Ms. Matthews?
- Yeah.
It's okay. You're gonna
be fine. Just stay here.
All available units. I have Claire Matthews.
I have Claire Matthews at the festival exit.
Help me.
Stop right there.
Hands in the air.
Drop the weapon.
And if I refuse?
I will shoot you dead.
I don't think you have the...
She's after me!
Help me. please!
Claire. Claire.
She's right here.
Drop the gun. Ryan.
Do it!
- Don't hurt her.
- Kick it away. Now!
- Let her go.
- No. Ryan. It doesn't work that way.
- Please.
- She has to die.
Because you have to be punished.
You slept with Joe's wife.
And between you and
me. I don't take that lightly.
- Get off me.
- Let her go. That's not Joe's wife.
It's a freaking metaphor. Ryan.
- Tell them to stay back.
- Back. back. Stay back. Stay back.
Okay.
Now you gotta let
her go. Hey. kill me.
No. I have to kill her.
Love hurts. Ryan.
That's the theme here.
Joe Carroll gets a happy
ending. You don't get one.
Cheaters don't get happy
endings. My husband didn't get one.
You're right.
It was a mistake.
I shouldn't have done it.
- Then why did you?
- Please. please. just let her go.
Why? Why did you do it?
Because I love her.
Thank you.
That was very honest.
And now...
you gotta do something for me.
Because you're right.
I do. I need to be punished.
Come on. just kill me.
- Stay back. RYAN:
Because I still love her.
And I can't un-love her.
And the only way that you and Joe are
gonna get a happy ending is if you kill me.
So come on. just do it.
Just...
take that nail gun...
shoot me right in the
head. You can do it.
Come on. I know you can.
Do it now.
Now. Now!
No. no!
Ryan Hardy is proving to be
more of a challenge than I thought.
Yeah. I wouldn't underestimate
that man. I made that mistake once.
What happened?
- Louise is dead.
- Oh.
Amanda is in federal custody.
That is unfortunate.
I'm sorry about Louise.
I know she was important to you.
Not really.
Maybe. heh. I don't know. heh.
There is good news.
At noon today FBI Agent Nick Donovan
made an encrypted cell phone call...
to Quantico. Virginia checking
the status of Claire Matthews.
We deciphered that encryption.
And what did you find?
Uh. call was transferred
to several Bureau offices...
before it was finally transferred
to U.S. Marshall Scott Turner.
Currently in charge of
personal security for Claire.
We were able to narrow her location
to the nearest cell phone tower.
Your wife is in Huntingdon
County. Pennsylvania.
Oh. that is excellent
work. my friend.
I wanna interview Amanda
first thing in the morning.
- Donovan said that wouldn't happen.
- We can break her.
The thing about Joe's cult members
is they don't come to this party sane.
- You just gotta speak their language.
- Look. I agree with you.
But Director Franklin ordered
that she be transferred to D.C.
- They're questioning her at headquarters.
- Ah. You're kidding me.
They're moving the investigation
there. They're taking the lead.
How do you feel about that?
Like a failure.
Hey. you're not.
So all that stuff Ryan was saying
tonight about Claire Matthews.
He's still hung up on her.
He loves her.
That's just twisted.
Were you expecting someone else?
- Joe. maybe?
- What is it?
Well. Joe's a little busy right now.
but. uh. I've been looking for you.
And you found me.
What is it I can do for you?
Earlier I received a
very exciting e-mail.
I wanted to tell you about it.
but I thought I'd surprise you.
So follow me.
Hello. Emma.